---
title: "Glossary"
bg:  fnavy
color: white
fa-icon: list-alt
---

**Annotations**

`@Sut`

An annotation used on single test class field to denote the field type as the system under test (SUT).

`@Fake`

An annotation that can be placed on unit, integration and system test class field to denote the field as a fake collaborator. A fake collaborator is a mock instance of the collaborator that allows us to mock functionality and verify interaction between the system under test and the fake collaborator in isolation. Note that if the value of the test class fake field is already initialized with:

 <ul>
 <li>a mock instance of the collaborator then this mock instance will be used and injected into the system under test.
 </li>
 <li>
 the real instance of the collaborator then a mock instance that delegates to the real instance will be created and injected into the system under test.
 </li>
 </ul>

`@Real`

An annotation that can be placed on integration and system test class fields to denote the field as a real collaborator of the system under test.

`@Virtual`

An annotation that can be placed on unit, integration and system test class field to denote the field as a virtual collaborator. A virtual collaborator is a mock instances that delegate to a real instance of the collaborator of the system under test and are useful if you wish to mock certain functionality and delegate others to the real collaborator instance.

`@CollaboratorProvider`

An annotation used to specifying a provider of the system under test's collaborators. This annotation can be placed on a test class or method. This is useful for configuring a system under test whose collaborator(s) can not be faked or virtualized (i.e. a `java.net.URL` collaborator which is a final class). Note that if this annotation is:

<ul>
<li>
placed on a test class method then this method will be called to provide the system under test's collaborators.
</li>
<li>
placed on the test class and `CollaboratorProvider#value()` is specified then a method within `CollaboratorProvider#value()` class will be called to provide collaborators for the system under test.
</li>
</ul>

`@ConfigHandler`

An annotation that can be placed on a test class or test class method to configure various functions before each integration and system test run (i.e. HK2 ServiceLocator, Spring Application Context, required resources, etc). Note that if the annotation is placed on:

<ul>
<li>
a test class method then the method will be called to perform pre-test run configuration.
</li>
<li>
the test class and `ConfigHandler#value()` is specified then the the appropriate configuration method in the `ConfigHandler#value()` class will be called to perform pre-test run configuration.
</li>
</ul>

`@Module`

An annotation that can be placed on integration and system tests to load a module that contains services before each test run (i.e. Spring's Java Config, HK2's AbstractBinder, or Guice's AbstractModule).

`@Scan`

An annotation that can be placed on integration and system tests to load a resources that contains services before each test run (i.e. Spring service fully qualified package name, HK2 service locator descriptor classpath).

`@Application`

An annotation that can be placed on system tests to specify an application (i.e. Jersey 2, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, etc) that should be loaded, configured, started, and stopped before and after each test run.

`@LocalResource`

An annotation that can be placed on integration and system tests to specify local resources that must be loaded, configured, started, stopped before and after each test case (i.e. an in-memory database). Note that a typical local resource consists of a resource component and resource client component (optional). For example, if a test class requires an in-memory database then the database `javax.sql.DataSource` can be thought of as the resource component and the `java.sql.Connection` to the DataSource as the resource client component.

`@VirtualResource`

An annotation that can be placed on integration and system tests to specify virtual resources that should be loaded, configured, started, stopped before and after each test run. This is useful when performing integration and system tests using real production environment (i.e. a real PostgresSQL database or Cassandra cluster).

`@RemoteResource`

An annotation that can be placed on integration and system tests to specify remote resources that should be loaded, configured, started, stopped before and after each test run. This is useful when performing integration and system tests using real cloud and third party production or sandbox services (i.e. a AWS SQS, GitHub API, Stripe API, etc).

`@Fixture`

An annotation that can be placed on test related class (i.e. Spring's Java Config, HK2's AbstractBinder, or Guice's AbstractModule) or a test class field to denote them as test fixture. Note that if this annotation is placed on:

<ul>
<li>
a test class field then the value of the field can be initialized (`Fixture#init()`) or destroyed (`Fixture#destroy()`) before and after each test run.
</li>
<li>
a module class the services defined in the module will take precedence over services defined in other modules. This is useful if you wish to substitute certain services for testing purpose (i.e. load a different DataSource than the one for production during test runs).
</li>
</ul>

`@Bundle`

A meta-annotation that identifies an annotation as test group. A test group annotation provide the ability to define, group, and use one or more Testify annotations in a reusable manner in your test classes and avoid annotation bloat.