---
title: "FAQ"
bg:  fnavy
color: white
fa-icon: question
---

**Why do we need yet another Java Testing Framework?**

The intent of this project is not to add yet another testing framework to the Java eco-system or simply re-invent the wheel but to fill a void. There are numerous testing framework out there but none that allow you to write Unit, Integration and System tests quickly and intuitively using the same framework. Testify is built on testing best practices and we feel confident that it will help as you write production and test code. Ultimately we hope you find Testify enables you to be more productive by saving you time.

**Who started the project?**

Testify Project was started by Sharmarke Aden late 2015 because he was not satisfied with the landscape of Jave Testing Framework. Having written HK2 Testing Framework, contributed to Cargo, and used various testing frameworks (Spring Testing Framework, Arquillian, Selenium, etc), and seen countless of ineffective "unit", "integration", and "system" tests Sharmarke decided there has to be a better way.

**Do you intend to support my favorite XYZ Framework?**

Testify is designed to be modular and extensible. Adding support for a new dependency injection or application framework or any feature for that matter is a fairly straight forward process. Having said that, work has to be prioritized. We will seriously consider every request and if your request is aligned with Testify's mission and vision we will add it. We am also very open to and would love to have contributions from the community. Please submit a [pull request][pull-request] for features and fixes you would like to see in Testify.

**Can my Test Class have multiple Resources?**

Absolutely! @LocalResource, @VirtualResource, @RemoteResource annotations are repeatable and your test class can require as many resources as it needs ;)

**Can my Test Class have multiple Modules**

Yes. `@Module` annotation is repeatable. Having said that, it is recommended that your test class only import one single module to limit the scope of the test class and maintain modularity. If you find that you need many modules you should think about refactoring.

**Isn't what you call fake really a mock? Why not call it mock?**

It is true that there is a distinction between a fake and a mock. Testify indeed conflates the two as [described][mocks-arent-stubs] by Martin Flowers. Testify considered and in fact did use `@Mock` at inception but a decision was made to change it to `@Fake` for the following reason:

- Testify has adopted [Semantic Testing](http://semantictesting.org) and takes systems thinking approach to thinking about what we call collaborators.
- Many testing frameworks (i.e. Mockito, Powermock, etc) already have `@Mock` annotations and developers will have to make a conscious decision as to which annotation to import. This can lead to a number of issues that can slow down development.
- `@Fake` is business people and novice friendly and we want to be as friendly as possible to a wider audience.
- `@Fake` fits nicely with `@Real` and `@Virtual` lexicon. Collaborators are either fake, real, or virtual (delegated mock) and we believe that these concepts are easier to explain, understand and reason about.
- Using `@Fake` is in-line with Testify's mission of being an easy to understand and easy to use testing framework.

**Docker Container based testing is eating my disk space? How do I reclaim disk space?**

- Testify tries to delete containers after each test but sometimes may not be able (i.ie the JVM is terminated in the middle of a test
case). You can manually clean up the exited containers using the following command:

{% highlight bash linenos=table %}
docker rm -v $(docker ps -a -q -f status=exited)
{% endhighlight %}

- Docker keeps all images it pulls from the Docker registry on disk. If you are still low on disk space you can manually delete dangling Docker images (file system layer not being referenced) to create disk room. It is a good idea to use fixed version Docker images but if you want to always use the latest version of a Docker image then you may want to periodically clean up dangling images by executing the following command:

{% highlight bash linenos=table %}
docker rmi $(docker images -f "dangling=true" -q)
{% endhighlight %}

- Docker also keeps volumes of pulled images on disk. If you are still low on disk space and are using Docker v1.19.x and above you can delete dangling volumes using the following command:

{% highlight bash linenos=table %}
docker volume rm $(docker volume ls -qf dangling=true)
{% endhighlight %}

**I'm having issues, can you help?**

- If you come across an issue please check if it is a [known issue][issues]
- [File a Bug][issues-new]
- [Gitter][gitter]
- [Users Mailing List][users-groups] ([testifyproject-users@googlegroups.com][users-email])
- [Developers Mailing List][devs-groups] ([testifyproject-devs@googlegroups.com][devs-email])


[pull-request]: https://github.com/testify-project/testify/pulls
[issues]: https://github.com/testify-project/testify/issues
[issues-new]: https://github.com/testify-project/testify/issues/new
[gitter]: https://gitter.im/testify-project/Lobby
[users-email]: mailto:testifyproject-users@googlegroups.com
[users-groups]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/testifyproject-users
[devs-email]: mailto:testifyproject-devs@googlegroups.com
[devs-groups]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/testifyproject-devs
[mocks-arent-stubs]: http://www.martinfowler.com/articles/mocksArentStubs.html
